FIX / DOC Add support ElementalArea in DataObject (#978)
silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental: docs/en/examples/using_elementalArea_with_dataObject.md

---
title: Using ElementalArea with DataObject

> summary: Learn how to add ElementalArea to your models and manage it in ModalAdmin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to add an ElementalArea to your models and manage it in a ModelAdmin
```

---

# Using ElementalArea with DataObject

## Creaating Model and adding ElementalArea

In this example the class BlogPost will be created, it will extend DataObject class. Also new BlogPost Admin section will be created in Admin panel where CMS user can manage the BlogPosts. 

Let's look at an example:

**app/src/Admins/BlogPostsAdmin.php**

```php
namespace App\Admins;

use App\Models\BlogPost;
use SilverStripe\Admin\ModelAdmin;

class BlogPostsAdmin extends ModelAdmin
{

    private static string $url_segment = 'blog-posts-admin';

    private static string $menu_title = 'Blog Posts';

    private static string $menu_icon_class = 'font-icon-block-banner';

    private static array $managed_models = [
        BlogPost::class,
    ];
}
```

> ``` $managed_models ``` - this static variable connects BlogPostAdmin with BlogPost, which will be created in the following code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$managed_models` - this static variable connects BlogPostAdmin with BlogPost, which will be created in the following code.
```
Three backticks usually denote a block of code rather than an inline code reference.

> When you create DataObject you should define connection between your DataObject and ElementalArea by adding ```$has_one``` relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create DataObject you should define connection between your `DataObject` and `ElementalArea` by adding `$has_one` relationship.
```

    ]

    private static $has_one = [
        'ElementalArea' => ElementalArea::class,
    ];

    ...
}
 ```

If you are using ElementalArea together with DataObject, it is important to define a few following methods in the class.
First of all, CMSEditLink() method should be defined to generate link for opening editing section of the partucular BlogPost. 
BaseElement uses link, that was created in CMSEditLink() method in BlogPost class, to generate new links for opening editing section of the particular Element.

```php
...

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    ...

    public function CMSEditLink()
    {
        // In this example we use BlogPostsAdmin class as Controller
        $admin = BlogPostsAdmin::singleton();

        // Makes link more readable. Instead App\Models\ BlogPost, we get App-Models-BlogPost
        $sanitisedClassname = str_replace('\\', '-', $this->ClassName);

        // Returns link to editing section with elements
        return Controller::join_links(
            $admin->Link($sanitisedClassname),
            'EditForm/field/',
            $sanitisedClassname,
            'item',
            $this->ID,
        );
    }

    ...
    
}

```

> Method Link() doesn't exist in DataObject class, so you should define this method in your class. Since PreviewLink() method of BaseElement uses Link() method to generate Preview window in the BlogPost Admin section. You should add canArchive() method in your class as well to set rules for canDalete() method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Method Link() doesn't exist in DataObject class, so you should define this method in your class. Since PreviewLink() method of BaseElement uses Link() method to generate Preview window in the BlogPost Admin section.  Note: making a DataObject previewable requires silverstripe/admin 4.11 or later.

You should add canArchive() method in your class as well to set rules for canDelete() method.
```

Reviewer: Admin isn't up to 4 yet - that should read 1.11 :p

Author: The last version is 1.10. So it should be like "...requires silverstripe/admin 1.10 or later".

        if (!$obj || !$obj->exists()) {
            return $this->httpError(404);
        }

        // Include use of a front-end theme temporarily.
        $oldThemes = SSViewer::get_themes();
        SSViewer::set_themes(SSViewer::config()->get('themes'));
        $preview = $obj->forTemplate();

        // Make sure to set back to backend themes.
        SSViewer::set_themes($oldThemes);

        return $preview;
    }

}

```

**app/src/Models/BlogPost.php**

```php
...

class BlogPost extends DataObject implements CMSPreviewable
{
    ...

    public function PreviewLink($action = null)
    {
        $admin = BlogPostsAdmin::singleton();
        return $this->ID
            ? Controller::join_links(
                $admin->Link(str_replace('\\', '-', $this->ClassName)),
                'cmsPreview',
                $this->ID
                )
            : null;
    }

    // The following methods are required to show data in template

    public function getMimeType()
    {
        return 'text/html';
    }

    public function forTemplate($holder = true)
    {
        return $this->renderWith(['type' => 'Blogs', self::class]);
    }
}

```

> Add template for DataObject to display data. In this example we create BlogPost.ss file in templates/App/Models/Blogs directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add template for DataObject to display data. In this example we create a BlogPost.ss file.
```

> **BlogPost.ss**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**templates/App/Models/BlogPost.ss**
```
